docs/source/api.rst, before:

celiagg API documentation
=========================

.. automodule:: celiagg


Canvas Classes
--------------

There are many canvas classes which all have a common interface. The difference
between the classes is the color format of the destination frame buffer. The
list of available canvas classes follows this documentation of ``CanvasRGBA32``
which covers the interface:

.. autoclass:: CanvasRGBA32
   :members:
   :inherited-members:

.. autoclass:: CanvasG8

.. autoclass:: CanvasGA16

.. autoclass:: CanvasRGB24

.. autoclass:: CanvasBGRA32

.. autoclass:: CanvasRGBA128


Drawing State Container Classes
-------------------------------

There are a handful of objects which contain state or data useful to the
various drawing methods of ``Canvas``. ``GraphicsState`` and ``Transform`` for
example, are passed to every drawing method. ``Image`` instances can either be
drawn directly on a ``Canvas``, or supplied to ``PatternPaint`` to serve as a
repeating fill pattern. Finally, ``Font`` determines the font used when drawing
text, and can also be used to measure the bounding rectangle of a rendered
string.

.. autoclass:: GraphicsState

.. autoclass:: Image

.. autoclass:: Font
   :members:

.. autoclass:: Rect

.. autoclass:: Transform
   :members:


Paint Classes
-------------

The ``Paint`` (an internal base class) classes determine the look of strokes
and fills. ``Canvas.draw_shape`` and ``Canvas.draw_text`` both accept optional
arguments for `fill` and `stroke` ``Paint``s. The currently available options
are solid colors, gradients, or image patterns.

.. autoclass:: LinearGradientPaint

.. autoclass:: RadialGradientPaint

.. autoclass:: PatternPaint

.. autoclass:: SolidPaint


``VetexSource`` Classes
-----------------------

The ``VertexSource`` (an internal base class) classes contain geometry data
which can be drawn using the ``Canvas.draw_shape`` method.

.. autoclass:: BSpline
   :members:
   :inherited-members:

.. autoclass:: Path
   :members:
   :inherited-members:

.. autoclass:: ShapeAtPoints
   :members:
   :inherited-members:


Enumerations
------------

BlendMode
~~~~~~~~~

NOTE: The various blend modes are currently *ignored*.

  * ``BlendAlpha``
  * ``BlendClear``
  * ``BlendSrc``
  * ``BlendDst``
  * ``BlendSrcOver``
  * ``BlendDstOver``
  * ``BlendSrcIn``
  * ``BlendDstIn``
  * ``BlendSrcOut``
  * ``BlendDstOut``
  * ``BlendSrcAtop``
  * ``BlendDstAtop``
  * ``BlendXor``
  * ``BlendAdd``
  * ``BlendMultiply``
  * ``BlendScreen``
  * ``BlendOverlay``
  * ``BlendDarken``
  * ``BlendLighten``
  * ``BlendColorDodge``
  * ``BlendColorBurn``
  * ``BlendHardLight``
  * ``BlendSoftLight``
  * ``BlendDifference``
  * ``BlendExclusion``

DrawingMode
~~~~~~~~~~~

Drawing mode: outline (stroke) only, fill only, or a combination. The ``Eof``
fill variations use the even-odd rule when filling self-intersecting curves.

  * ``DrawFill``
  * ``DrawEofFill``
  * ``DrawStroke``
  * ``DrawFillStroke``
  * ``DrawEofFillStroke``

FontCacheType
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Determines whether text is rendered with a raster or vector representation.
Raster text is faster, but *doesn't support different stroke and fill paints*;
only solid color. Vector text is slower but very powerful, and can make use of
gradients or patterned fills/strokes.

  * ``RasterFontCache``
  * ``VectorFontCache``

GradientSpread
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

How a gradient behaves at its boundaries. ``Pad`` means that the colors at the
ends of a gradient extend to infinity. ``Reflect`` sweeps back and forth over
a gradient, and ``Repeat`` starts over at the first color after getting to the
end of a gradient.

  * ``SpreadPad``
  * ``SpreadReflect``
  * ``SpreadRepeat``

GradientUnits
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

How the coordinates of a gradient object are interpreted. ``UserSpace`` means
the local transform (the ``Transform`` passed to the draw method) affects the
gradient coordinates. ``ObjectBoundingBox`` means the coordinates are
interpreted as relative values (percentages) within the bounding box of the
``VertexSource`` object currently being drawn.

NOTE: This is identical to how SVG handles gradients.
See https://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/pservers.html for a more lucid description.

  * ``UserSpace``
  * ``ObjectBoundingBox``

InnerJoin
~~~~~~~~~

  * ``InnerBevel``
  * ``InnerMiter``
  * ``InnerJag``
  * ``InnerRound``

LineCap
~~~~~~~

  * ``CapButt``
  * ``CapSquare``
  * ``CapRound``

LineJoin
~~~~~~~~

  * ``JoinMiter``
  * ``JoinRound``
  * ``JoinBevel``

PatternStyle
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Similar to ``GradientSpread``, patterns can either reflect or repeat.

  * ``StyleRepeat``
  * ``StyleReflect``

PixelFormat
~~~~~~~~~~~

  * ``Gray8``
  * ``Gray16``
  * ``Gray32``
  * ``BGR24``
  * ``RGB24``
  * ``BGR48``
  * ``RGB48``
  * ``BGR96``
  * ``RGB96``
  * ``BGRA32``
  * ``RGBA32``
  * ``ARGB32``
  * ``ABGR32``
  * ``BGRA64``
  * ``RGBA64``
  * ``ARGB64``
  * ``ABGR64``
  * ``BGRA128``
  * ``RGBA128``
  * ``ARGB128``
  * ``ABGR128``

TextDrawingMode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  * ``TextDrawInvisible``
  * ``TextDrawFill``
  * ``TextDrawStroke``
  * ``TextDrawClip``
  * ``TextDrawFillStroke``
  * ``TextDrawFillClip``
  * ``TextDrawStrokeClip``
  * ``TextDrawFillStrokeClip``


Miscellaneous
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autoexception:: AggError

Commit message:

Make the font cache a separate object (#74)
This is a rather sizable refactor which aims to fix the [Windows] text rendering bugs introduced in PR #65.

Instead of creating `thread_local` globals in `Font` for management of glyph caching, I've separated out the font cache into a new `FontCache` object which exists independently of the `Canvas*` and `Font` objects. A font cache can be shared between any number of canvas instances, as long as one takes care not to use the cache simultaneously from multiple threads.

One big downside of this change is that it **breaks** the existing `Font` API by moving the `Font.string_width` method to `FontCache.width`. Therefore I intend to bump the package's major version number to 2, as an extra warning to downstream users. `Canvas*` classes also need to be passed a `FontCache` instance at construction time, but existing code can continue to work _without modification_ due to some Python wrappers in the package's `__init__` module.

docs/source/api.rst, after:

celiagg API documentation
=========================

.. automodule:: celiagg


Canvas Classes
--------------

There are many canvas classes which all have a common interface. The difference
between the classes is the color format of the destination frame buffer. The
list of available canvas classes follows this documentation of ``CanvasRGBA32``
which covers the interface:

.. autoclass:: CanvasRGBA32
   :members:
   :inherited-members:

.. autoclass:: CanvasG8

.. autoclass:: CanvasGA16

.. autoclass:: CanvasRGB24

.. autoclass:: CanvasBGRA32

.. autoclass:: CanvasRGBA128


Drawing State Container Classes
-------------------------------

There are a handful of objects which contain state or data useful to the
various drawing methods of ``Canvas``. ``GraphicsState`` and ``Transform`` for
example, are passed to every drawing method. ``Image`` instances can either be
drawn directly on a ``Canvas``, or supplied to ``PatternPaint`` to serve as a
repeating fill pattern. Finally, ``Font`` determines the font used when drawing
text. And ``FontCache`` is used internally by the canvas classes to cache glyphs
for the purpose of faster text rendering. Additionally, ``FontCache`` can be
used to measure the width of a rendered string.

.. autoclass:: GraphicsState

.. autoclass:: Image

.. autoclass:: FontCache

.. autoclass:: Font
   :members:

.. autoclass:: Rect

.. autoclass:: Transform
   :members:


Paint Classes
-------------

The ``Paint`` (an internal base class) classes determine the look of strokes
and fills. ``Canvas.draw_shape`` and ``Canvas.draw_text`` both accept optional
arguments for `fill` and `stroke` ``Paint``s. The currently available options
are solid colors, gradients, or image patterns.

.. autoclass:: LinearGradientPaint

.. autoclass:: RadialGradientPaint

.. autoclass:: PatternPaint

.. autoclass:: SolidPaint


``VetexSource`` Classes
-----------------------

The ``VertexSource`` (an internal base class) classes contain geometry data
which can be drawn using the ``Canvas.draw_shape`` method.

.. autoclass:: BSpline
   :members:
   :inherited-members:

.. autoclass:: Path
   :members:
   :inherited-members:

.. autoclass:: ShapeAtPoints
   :members:
   :inherited-members:


Enumerations
------------

BlendMode
~~~~~~~~~

NOTE: The various blend modes are currently *ignored*.

  * ``BlendAlpha``
  * ``BlendClear``
  * ``BlendSrc``
  * ``BlendDst``
  * ``BlendSrcOver``
  * ``BlendDstOver``
  * ``BlendSrcIn``
  * ``BlendDstIn``
  * ``BlendSrcOut``
  * ``BlendDstOut``
  * ``BlendSrcAtop``
  * ``BlendDstAtop``
  * ``BlendXor``
  * ``BlendAdd``
  * ``BlendMultiply``
  * ``BlendScreen``
  * ``BlendOverlay``
  * ``BlendDarken``
  * ``BlendLighten``
  * ``BlendColorDodge``
  * ``BlendColorBurn``
  * ``BlendHardLight``
  * ``BlendSoftLight``
  * ``BlendDifference``
  * ``BlendExclusion``

DrawingMode
~~~~~~~~~~~

Drawing mode: outline (stroke) only, fill only, or a combination. The ``Eof``
fill variations use the even-odd rule when filling self-intersecting curves.

  * ``DrawFill``
  * ``DrawEofFill``
  * ``DrawStroke``
  * ``DrawFillStroke``
  * ``DrawEofFillStroke``

FontCacheType
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Determines whether text is rendered with a raster or vector representation.
Raster text is faster, but *doesn't support different stroke and fill paints*;
only solid color. Vector text is slower but very powerful, and can make use of
gradients or patterned fills/strokes.

  * ``RasterFontCache``
  * ``VectorFontCache``

GradientSpread
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

How a gradient behaves at its boundaries. ``Pad`` means that the colors at the
ends of a gradient extend to infinity. ``Reflect`` sweeps back and forth over
a gradient, and ``Repeat`` starts over at the first color after getting to the
end of a gradient.

  * ``SpreadPad``
  * ``SpreadReflect``
  * ``SpreadRepeat``

GradientUnits
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

How the coordinates of a gradient object are interpreted. ``UserSpace`` means
the local transform (the ``Transform`` passed to the draw method) affects the
gradient coordinates. ``ObjectBoundingBox`` means the coordinates are
interpreted as relative values (percentages) within the bounding box of the
``VertexSource`` object currently being drawn.

NOTE: This is identical to how SVG handles gradients.
See https://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/pservers.html for a more lucid description.

  * ``UserSpace``
  * ``ObjectBoundingBox``

InnerJoin
~~~~~~~~~

  * ``InnerBevel``
  * ``InnerMiter``
  * ``InnerJag``
  * ``InnerRound``

LineCap
~~~~~~~

  * ``CapButt``
  * ``CapSquare``
  * ``CapRound``

LineJoin
~~~~~~~~

  * ``JoinMiter``
  * ``JoinRound``
  * ``JoinBevel``

PatternStyle
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Similar to ``GradientSpread``, patterns can either reflect or repeat.

  * ``StyleRepeat``
  * ``StyleReflect``

PixelFormat
~~~~~~~~~~~

  * ``Gray8``
  * ``Gray16``
  * ``Gray32``
  * ``BGR24``
  * ``RGB24``
  * ``BGR48``
  * ``RGB48``
  * ``BGR96``
  * ``RGB96``
  * ``BGRA32``
  * ``RGBA32``
  * ``ARGB32``
  * ``ABGR32``
  * ``BGRA64``
  * ``RGBA64``
  * ``ARGB64``
  * ``ABGR64``
  * ``BGRA128``
  * ``RGBA128``
  * ``ARGB128``
  * ``ABGR128``

TextDrawingMode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  * ``TextDrawInvisible``
  * ``TextDrawFill``
  * ``TextDrawStroke``
  * ``TextDrawClip``
  * ``TextDrawFillStroke``
  * ``TextDrawFillClip``
  * ``TextDrawStrokeClip``
  * ``TextDrawFillStrokeClip``


Miscellaneous
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autoexception:: AggError
